# View

A view allows a query to be saved and treated like a table. It is a logical construct, as it
does not store data like a table. In other words, materialized views are not currently
supported by Hive.\
`hive目前只支持逻辑视图`

When a query references a view, the information in its definition is combined with the
rest of the query by Hive’s query planner. Logically, you can imagine that Hive executes
the view and then uses the results in the rest of the query.\
`效果是: hive先执行 view语句,然后在view的结果上 再执行用户语句`

## Views to Reduce Query Complexity \ 使用视图降低查询复杂性

When a query becomes long or complicated, a view may be used to hide the complexity
by dividing the query into smaller, more manageable pieces; similar to writing a function
in a programming language or the concept of layered design in software. Encapsulating
the complexity makes it easier for end users to construct complex queries from
reusable parts. For example, consider the following query with a nested subquery:

```sql
FROM (
 SELECT * FROM people JOIN cart
 ON (cart.people_id=people.id) WHERE firstname='john'
) a SELECT a.lastname WHERE a.id=3;
```

It is common for Hive queries to have many levels of nesting. In the following example,
the nested portion of the query is turned into a view:

```sql
CREATE VIEW shorter_join AS
SELECT * FROM people JOIN cart
ON (cart.people_id=people.id) WHERE firstname='john';
```

Now the view is used like any other table. In this query we added a WHERE clause to the

```sql
SELECT statement. This exactly emulates the original query:
SELECT lastname FROM shorter_join WHERE id=3;
```

## Views that Restrict Data Based on Conditions　＼　保护敏感数据

A common use case for views is restricting the result rows based on the value of one or
more columns. Some databases allow a view to be used as a security mechanism. Rather
than give the user access to the raw table with sensitive data, the user is given access to
a view with a WHERE clause that restricts the data. Hive does not currently support this
feature, as the user must have access to the entire underlying raw table for the view to
work. However, the concept of a view created to limit data access can be used to protect
information from the casual query:

```sql
hive> CREATE TABLE userinfo (
 > firstname string, lastname string, ssn string, password string);
hive> CREATE VIEW safer_user_info AS
 > SELECT firstname,lastname FROM userinfo;
```

Here is another example where a view is used to restrict data based on a WHERE clause.
In this case, we wish to provide a view on an employee table that only exposes employees
from a specific department:

```sql
hive> CREATE TABLE employee (firstname string, lastname string,
 > ssn string, password string, department string);
hive> CREATE VIEW techops_employee AS
 > SELECT firstname,lastname,ssn FROM userinfo WERE department='techops';
```

## Views and Map Type for Dynamic Tables

Recall from Chapter 3 that Hive supports arrays, maps, and structs datatypes. These
datatypes are not common in traditional databases as they break first normal form.
Hive’s ability to treat a line of text as a map, rather than a fixed set of columns, combined
with the view feature, allows you to define multiple logical tables over one physical table.
For example, consider the following sample data file that treats an entire row as a map
rather than a list of fixed columns. Rather than using Hive’s default values for separators,
this file uses ^A (Control-A) as the collection item separator (i.e., between keyvalue
pairs in this case, where the collection is a map) and ^B (Control-B) as the separator
between keys and values in the map. The long lines wrap in the following listing,
so we added a blank line between them for better clarity:

```txt
time^B1298598398404^Atype^Brequest^Astate^Bny^Acity^Bwhite
plains^Apart\^Bmuffler
time^B1298598398432^Atype^Bresponse^Astate^Bny^Acity^Btarrytown^Apart\^Bmuffler
time^B1298598399404^Atype^Brequest^Astate^Btx^Acity^Baustin^Apart^Bheadlight
```

Now we create our table:

```sql
CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE dynamictable(cols map<string,string>)
ROW FORMAT DELIMITED
 FIELDS TERMINATED BY '\004'
 COLLECTION ITEMS TERMINATED BY '\001'
 MAP KEYS TERMINATED BY '\002'
STORED AS TEXTFILE;
```

Because there is only one field per row, the FIELDS TERMINATED BY value actually has
no effect.

Now we can create a view that extracts only rows with type equal to requests and get
the city, state, and part into a view called orders:

```sql
CREATE VIEW orders(state, city, part) AS
SELECT cols["state"], cols["city"], cols["part"]
FROM dynamictable
WHERE cols["type"] = "request";
```

A second view is created named shipments. This view returns the time and part column
from rows where the type is response:

```sql
CREATE VIEW shipments(time, part) AS
SELECT cols["time"], cols["parts"]
FROM dynamictable
WHERE cols["type"] = "response";
```

For another example of this feature, see http://dev.bizo.com/2011/02/columns-in-hive.html#!/2011/02/columns-in-hive.html.

## View Odds and Ends \ Odds and Ends => 零碎的

We said that Hive evaluates the view and then uses the results to evaluate the query.
However, as part of Hive’s query optimization, the clauses of both the query and view
may be combined together into a single actual query.\
`作为Hive的查询优化,query和view会被组合成一个query,而不是真的执行两次`

Nevertheless, the conceptual view still applies when the view and a query that uses it
both contain an ORDER BY clause or a LIMIT clause. The view’s clauses are evaluated
before the using query’s clauses.\
`当view和query都包含ORDER BY或LIMIT语句,view的概念还是有的.view中的语句会被先执行`

For example, if the view has a LIMIT 100 clause and the query has a LIMIT 200 clause,
you’ll get at most 100 results.

While defining a view doesn’t “materialize” any data, the view is frozen to any subsequent
changes to any tables and columns that the view uses. Hence, a query using a
view can fail if the referenced tables or columns no longer exist.\
`视图不能物理化数据,view附属于表与列,随之变化.如果表和列本身没有了,view会返回失败`

There are a few other clauses you can use when creating views. Modifying our last
example:

```sql
CREATE VIEW IF NOT EXISTS shipments(time, part)
COMMENT 'Time and parts for shipments.'
TBLPROPERTIES ('creator' = 'me')
AS SELECT ...;
```

As for tables, the IF NOT EXISTS and COMMENT … clauses are optional, and have the same
meaning they have for tables.

A view’s name must be unique compared to all other table and view names in the same
database.

You can also add a COMMENT for any or all of the new column names. The comments are
not “inherited” from the definition of the original table.

Also, if the AS SELECT contains an expression without an alias—e.g., size(cols) (the
number of items in cols)—then Hive will use _CN as the name, where N is a number
starting with 0. The view definition will fail if the AS SELECT clause is invalid.
Before the AS SELECT clause, you can also define TBLPROPERTIES, just like for tables. In
the example, we defined a property for the “creator” of the view.

The CREATE TABLE … LIKE … construct discussed in “Creating Tables” on page 53 can
also be used to copy a view, that is with a view as part of the LIKE expression:

```sql
CREATE TABLE shipments2
LIKE shipments;
```

You can also use the optional EXTERNAL keyword and LOCATION … clause, as before.

```note
The behavior of this statement is different as of Hive v0.8.0 and previous
versions of Hive. For v0.8.0, the command creates a new table, not a
new view. It uses defaults for the SerDe and file formats. For earlier
versions, a new view is created.
```

A view is dropped in the same way as a table:

`DROP VIEW IF EXISTS shipments;`

As usual, IF EXISTS is optional.

A view will be shown using SHOW TABLES (there is no SHOW VIEWS), however DROP TABLE
cannot be used to delete a view.

As for tables, DESCRIBE shipments and DESCRIBE EXTENDED shipments displays the usual
data for the shipment view. With the latter, there will be a tableType value in the
Detailed Table Information indicating the “table” is a VIRTUAL_VIEW.

You cannot use a view as a target of an INSERT or LOAD command.

Finally, views are read-only. You can only alter the metadata TBLPROPERTIES for a view:

`ALTER VIEW shipments SET TBLPROPERTIES ('created_at' = 'some_timestamp');`
