## **什么是线程池？**



很简单，简单看名字就知道是装有线程的池子，我们可以把要执行的多线程交给线程池来处理，和连接池的概念一样，通过维护一定数量的线程池来达到多个线程的复用。



## **线程池的好处**



我们知道不用线程池的话，每个线程都要通过new Thread(xxRunnable).start()的方式来创建并运行一个线程，线程少的话这不会是问题，而真实环境可能会开启多个线程让系统和程序达到最佳效率，当线程数达到一定数量就会耗尽系统的CPU和内存资源，也会造成GC频繁收集和停顿，因为每次创建和销毁一个线程都是要消耗系统资源的，如果为每个任务都创建线程这无疑是一个很大的性能瓶颈。所以，线程池中的线程复用极大节省了系统资源，当线程一段时间不再有任务处理时它也会自动销毁，而不会长驻内存。



## **线程池核心类**



在java.util.concurrent包中我们能找到线程池的定义，其中ThreadPoolExecutor是我们线程池核心类，首先看看线程池类的主要参数有哪些。



```java
    public ThreadPoolExecutor(int corePoolSize,
                              int maximumPoolSize,
                              long keepAliveTime,
                              TimeUnit unit,
                              BlockingQueue<Runnable> workQueue,
                              ThreadFactory threadFactory,
                              RejectedExecutionHandler handler) {
        if (corePoolSize < 0 ||
            maximumPoolSize <= 0 ||
            maximumPoolSize < corePoolSize ||
            keepAliveTime < 0)
            throw new IllegalArgumentException();
        if (workQueue == null || threadFactory == null || handler == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        this.acc = System.getSecurityManager() == null ?
                null :
                AccessController.getContext();
        this.corePoolSize = corePoolSize;
        this.maximumPoolSize = maximumPoolSize;
        this.workQueue = workQueue;
        this.keepAliveTime = unit.toNanos(keepAliveTime);
        this.threadFactory = threadFactory;
        this.handler = handler;
    }
```



- corePoolSize：线程池的核心大小，也可以理解为最小的线程池大小。
- maximumPoolSize：最大线程池大小。
- keepAliveTime：空余线程存活时间，指的是超过corePoolSize的空余线程达到多长时间才进行销毁。
- unit：销毁时间单位。
- workQueue：存储等待执行线程的工作队列。
- threadFactory：创建线程的工厂，一般用默认即可。
- handler：拒绝策略，当工作队列、线程池全已满时如何拒绝新任务，默认抛出异常。



## **线程池工作流程**



1、如果线程池中的线程小于corePoolSize时就会创建新线程直接执行任务。

2、如果线程池中的线程大于corePoolSize时就会暂时把任务存储到工作队列workQueue中等待执行。

3、如果工作队列workQueue也满时：当线程数小于最大线程池数maximumPoolSize时就会创建新线程来处理，而线程数大于等于最大线程池数maximumPoolSize时就会执行拒绝策略。



## **线程池分类** - java.util.concurrent.Executors

- newFixedThreadPool 固定线程池
- newCachedThreadPool 带缓冲线程池，线程数不确定，池子里没有线程就在创建一个，可能会内存溢出
- newSingleThreadExecutor 就一个线程，工作都存在队里里面，按顺序执行
- newScheduledThreadPool 调度线程池，即按一定的周期执行任务，即定时任务，对ThreadPoolExecutor进行了包装而已。
- 具体看看线程池里面的构造，救能看出来使用特点和注意事项

```java
/*
 * ORACLE PROPRIETARY/CONFIDENTIAL. Use is subject to license terms.
 * Written by Doug Lea with assistance from members of JCP JSR-166
 * Expert Group and released to the public domain, as explained at
 * http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
 */

package java.util.concurrent;
import java.util.*;
import java.util.concurrent.atomic.AtomicInteger;
import java.security.AccessControlContext;
import java.security.AccessController;
import java.security.PrivilegedAction;
import java.security.PrivilegedExceptionAction;
import java.security.PrivilegedActionException;
import java.security.AccessControlException;
import sun.security.util.SecurityConstants;

/**
 * Factory and utility methods for {@link Executor}, {@link
 * ExecutorService}, {@link ScheduledExecutorService}, {@link
 * ThreadFactory}, and {@link Callable} classes defined in this
 * package. This class supports the following kinds of methods:
 *
 * <ul>
 *   <li> Methods that create and return an {@link ExecutorService}
 *        set up with commonly useful configuration settings.
 *   <li> Methods that create and return a {@link ScheduledExecutorService}
 *        set up with commonly useful configuration settings.
 *   <li> Methods that create and return a "wrapped" ExecutorService, that
 *        disables reconfiguration by making implementation-specific methods
 *        inaccessible.
 *   <li> Methods that create and return a {@link ThreadFactory}
 *        that sets newly created threads to a known state.
 *   <li> Methods that create and return a {@link Callable}
 *        out of other closure-like forms, so they can be used
 *        in execution methods requiring {@code Callable}.
 * </ul>
 *
 * @since 1.5
 * @author Doug Lea
 */
public class Executors {

    /**
     * Creates a thread pool that reuses a fixed number of threads
     * operating off a shared unbounded queue.  At any point, at most
     * {@code nThreads} threads will be active processing tasks.
     * If additional tasks are submitted when all threads are active,
     * they will wait in the queue until a thread is available.
     * If any thread terminates due to a failure during execution
     * prior to shutdown, a new one will take its place if needed to
     * execute subsequent tasks.  The threads in the pool will exist
     * until it is explicitly {@link ExecutorService#shutdown shutdown}.
     *
     * @param nThreads the number of threads in the pool
     * @return the newly created thread pool
     * @throws IllegalArgumentException if {@code nThreads <= 0}
     固定线程池，核心线程数和最大线程数固定相等，而空闲存活时间为0毫秒，说明此参数也无意义，工作队列为最大为Integer.MAX_VALUE大小的阻塞队列。当执行任务时，如果线程都很忙，就会丢到工作队列等有空闲线程时再执行，队列满就执行默认的拒绝策略。
     */
    public static ExecutorService newFixedThreadPool(int nThreads) {
        return new ThreadPoolExecutor(nThreads, nThreads,
                                      0L, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS,
                                      new LinkedBlockingQueue<Runnable>());
    }

    /**
     * Creates a thread pool that maintains enough threads to support
     * the given parallelism level, and may use multiple queues to
     * reduce contention. The parallelism level corresponds to the
     * maximum number of threads actively engaged in, or available to
     * engage in, task processing. The actual number of threads may
     * grow and shrink dynamically. A work-stealing pool makes no
     * guarantees about the order in which submitted tasks are
     * executed.
     *
     * @param parallelism the targeted parallelism level
     * @return the newly created thread pool
     * @throws IllegalArgumentException if {@code parallelism <= 0}
     * @since 1.8
     */
    public static ExecutorService newWorkStealingPool(int parallelism) {
        return new ForkJoinPool
            (parallelism,
             ForkJoinPool.defaultForkJoinWorkerThreadFactory,
             null, true);
    }

    /**
     * Creates a work-stealing thread pool using all
     * {@link Runtime#availableProcessors available processors}
     * as its target parallelism level.
     * @return the newly created thread pool
     * @see #newWorkStealingPool(int)
     * @since 1.8
     */
    public static ExecutorService newWorkStealingPool() {
        return new ForkJoinPool
            (Runtime.getRuntime().availableProcessors(),
             ForkJoinPool.defaultForkJoinWorkerThreadFactory,
             null, true);
    }

    /**
     * Creates a thread pool that reuses a fixed number of threads
     * operating off a shared unbounded queue, using the provided
     * ThreadFactory to create new threads when needed.  At any point,
     * at most {@code nThreads} threads will be active processing
     * tasks.  If additional tasks are submitted when all threads are
     * active, they will wait in the queue until a thread is
     * available.  If any thread terminates due to a failure during
     * execution prior to shutdown, a new one will take its place if
     * needed to execute subsequent tasks.  The threads in the pool will
     * exist until it is explicitly {@link ExecutorService#shutdown
     * shutdown}.
     *
     * @param nThreads the number of threads in the pool
     * @param threadFactory the factory to use when creating new threads
     * @return the newly created thread pool
     * @throws NullPointerException if threadFactory is null
     * @throws IllegalArgumentException if {@code nThreads <= 0}
     */
    public static ExecutorService newFixedThreadPool(int nThreads, ThreadFactory threadFactory) {
        return new ThreadPoolExecutor(nThreads, nThreads,
                                      0L, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS,
                                      new LinkedBlockingQueue<Runnable>(),
                                      threadFactory);
    }

    /**
     * Creates an Executor that uses a single worker thread operating
     * off an unbounded queue. (Note however that if this single
     * thread terminates due to a failure during execution prior to
     * shutdown, a new one will take its place if needed to execute
     * subsequent tasks.)  Tasks are guaranteed to execute
     * sequentially, and no more than one task will be active at any
     * given time. Unlike the otherwise equivalent
     * {@code newFixedThreadPool(1)} the returned executor is
     * guaranteed not to be reconfigurable to use additional threads.
     *单线程线程池，核心线程数和最大线程数均为1，空闲线程存活0毫秒同样无意思，意味着每次只执行一个线程，多余的先存储到工作队列，一个一个执行，保证了线程的顺序执行。
     * @return the newly created single-threaded Executor
     */
    public static ExecutorService newSingleThreadExecutor() {
        return new FinalizableDelegatedExecutorService
            (new ThreadPoolExecutor(1, 1,
                                    0L, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS,
                                    new LinkedBlockingQueue<Runnable>()));
    }

    /**
     * Creates an Executor that uses a single worker thread operating
     * off an unbounded queue, and uses the provided ThreadFactory to
     * create a new thread when needed. Unlike the otherwise
     * equivalent {@code newFixedThreadPool(1, threadFactory)} the
     * returned executor is guaranteed not to be reconfigurable to use
     * additional threads.
     *
     * @param threadFactory the factory to use when creating new
     * threads
     *
     * @return the newly created single-threaded Executor
     * @throws NullPointerException if threadFactory is null
     */
    public static ExecutorService newSingleThreadExecutor(ThreadFactory threadFactory) {
        return new FinalizableDelegatedExecutorService
            (new ThreadPoolExecutor(1, 1,
                                    0L, TimeUnit.MILLISECONDS,
                                    new LinkedBlockingQueue<Runnable>(),
                                    threadFactory));
    }

    /**
     * Creates a thread pool that creates new threads as needed, but
     * will reuse previously constructed threads when they are
     * available.  These pools will typically improve the performance
     * of programs that execute many short-lived asynchronous tasks.
     * Calls to {@code execute} will reuse previously constructed
     * threads if available. If no existing thread is available, a new
     * thread will be created and added to the pool. Threads that have
     * not been used for sixty seconds are terminated and removed from
     * the cache. Thus, a pool that remains idle for long enough will
     * not consume any resources. Note that pools with similar
     * properties but different details (for example, timeout parameters)
     * may be created using {@link ThreadPoolExecutor} constructors.
     *带缓冲线程池，从构造看核心线程数为0，最大线程数为Integer最大值大小，超过0个的空闲线程在60秒后销毁，SynchronousQueue这是一个直接提交的队列，意味着每个新任务都会有线程来执行，如果线程池有可用线程则执行任务，没有的话就创建一个来执行，线程池中的线程数不确定，一般建议执行速度较快较小的线程，不然这个最大线程池边界过大容易造成内存溢出。
     * @return the newly created thread pool
     */
    public static ExecutorService newCachedThreadPool() {
        return new ThreadPoolExecutor(0, Integer.MAX_VALUE,
                                      60L, TimeUnit.SECONDS,
                                      new SynchronousQueue<Runnable>());
    }

    /**
     * Creates a thread pool that creates new threads as needed, but
     * will reuse previously constructed threads when they are
     * available, and uses the provided
     * ThreadFactory to create new threads when needed.
     * @param threadFactory the factory to use when creating new threads
     * @return the newly created thread pool
     * @throws NullPointerException if threadFactory is null
     */
    public static ExecutorService newCachedThreadPool(ThreadFactory threadFactory) {
        return new ThreadPoolExecutor(0, Integer.MAX_VALUE,
                                      60L, TimeUnit.SECONDS,
                                      new SynchronousQueue<Runnable>(),
                                      threadFactory);
    }

    /**
     * Creates a single-threaded executor that can schedule commands
     * to run after a given delay, or to execute periodically.
     * (Note however that if this single
     * thread terminates due to a failure during execution prior to
     * shutdown, a new one will take its place if needed to execute
     * subsequent tasks.)  Tasks are guaranteed to execute
     * sequentially, and no more than one task will be active at any
     * given time. Unlike the otherwise equivalent
     * {@code newScheduledThreadPool(1)} the returned executor is
     * guaranteed not to be reconfigurable to use additional threads.
     * @return the newly created scheduled executor
     */
    public static ScheduledExecutorService newSingleThreadScheduledExecutor() {
        return new DelegatedScheduledExecutorService
            (new ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor(1));
    }

    /**
     * Creates a single-threaded executor that can schedule commands
     * to run after a given delay, or to execute periodically.  (Note
     * however that if this single thread terminates due to a failure
     * during execution prior to shutdown, a new one will take its
     * place if needed to execute subsequent tasks.)  Tasks are
     * guaranteed to execute sequentially, and no more than one task
     * will be active at any given time. Unlike the otherwise
     * equivalent {@code newScheduledThreadPool(1, threadFactory)}
     * the returned executor is guaranteed not to be reconfigurable to
     * use additional threads.
     * @param threadFactory the factory to use when creating new
     * threads
     * @return a newly created scheduled executor
     * @throws NullPointerException if threadFactory is null
     */
    public static ScheduledExecutorService newSingleThreadScheduledExecutor(ThreadFactory threadFactory) {
        return new DelegatedScheduledExecutorService
            (new ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor(1, threadFactory));
    }

    /**
     * Creates a thread pool that can schedule commands to run after a
     * given delay, or to execute periodically.
     * @param corePoolSize the number of threads to keep in the pool,
     * even if they are idle
     * @return a newly created scheduled thread pool
     * @throws IllegalArgumentException if {@code corePoolSize < 0}
     */
    public static ScheduledExecutorService newScheduledThreadPool(int corePoolSize) {
        return new ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor(corePoolSize);
    }

    /**
     * Creates a thread pool that can schedule commands to run after a
     * given delay, or to execute periodically.
     * @param corePoolSize the number of threads to keep in the pool,
     * even if they are idle
     * @param threadFactory the factory to use when the executor
     * creates a new thread
     * @return a newly created scheduled thread pool
     * @throws IllegalArgumentException if {@code corePoolSize < 0}
     * @throws NullPointerException if threadFactory is null
     调度线程池，即按一定的周期执行任务，即定时任务，对ThreadPoolExecutor进行了包装而已。
     */
    public static ScheduledExecutorService newScheduledThreadPool(
            int corePoolSize, ThreadFactory threadFactory) {
        return new ScheduledThreadPoolExecutor(corePoolSize, threadFactory);
    }

    /**
     * Returns an object that delegates all defined {@link
     * ExecutorService} methods to the given executor, but not any
     * other methods that might otherwise be accessible using
     * casts. This provides a way to safely "freeze" configuration and
     * disallow tuning of a given concrete implementation.
     * @param executor the underlying implementation
     * @return an {@code ExecutorService} instance
     * @throws NullPointerException if executor null
     */
    public static ExecutorService unconfigurableExecutorService(ExecutorService executor) {
        if (executor == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        return new DelegatedExecutorService(executor);
    }

    /**
     * Returns an object that delegates all defined {@link
     * ScheduledExecutorService} methods to the given executor, but
     * not any other methods that might otherwise be accessible using
     * casts. This provides a way to safely "freeze" configuration and
     * disallow tuning of a given concrete implementation.
     * @param executor the underlying implementation
     * @return a {@code ScheduledExecutorService} instance
     * @throws NullPointerException if executor null
     */
    public static ScheduledExecutorService unconfigurableScheduledExecutorService(ScheduledExecutorService executor) {
        if (executor == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        return new DelegatedScheduledExecutorService(executor);
    }

    /**
     * Returns a default thread factory used to create new threads.
     * This factory creates all new threads used by an Executor in the
     * same {@link ThreadGroup}. If there is a {@link
     * java.lang.SecurityManager}, it uses the group of {@link
     * System#getSecurityManager}, else the group of the thread
     * invoking this {@code defaultThreadFactory} method. Each new
     * thread is created as a non-daemon thread with priority set to
     * the smaller of {@code Thread.NORM_PRIORITY} and the maximum
     * priority permitted in the thread group.  New threads have names
     * accessible via {@link Thread#getName} of
     * <em>pool-N-thread-M</em>, where <em>N</em> is the sequence
     * number of this factory, and <em>M</em> is the sequence number
     * of the thread created by this factory.
     * @return a thread factory
     */
    public static ThreadFactory defaultThreadFactory() {
        return new DefaultThreadFactory();
    }

    /**
     * Returns a thread factory used to create new threads that
     * have the same permissions as the current thread.
     * This factory creates threads with the same settings as {@link
     * Executors#defaultThreadFactory}, additionally setting the
     * AccessControlContext and contextClassLoader of new threads to
     * be the same as the thread invoking this
     * {@code privilegedThreadFactory} method.  A new
     * {@code privilegedThreadFactory} can be created within an
     * {@link AccessController#doPrivileged AccessController.doPrivileged}
     * action setting the current thread's access control context to
     * create threads with the selected permission settings holding
     * within that action.
     *
     * <p>Note that while tasks running within such threads will have
     * the same access control and class loader settings as the
     * current thread, they need not have the same {@link
     * java.lang.ThreadLocal} or {@link
     * java.lang.InheritableThreadLocal} values. If necessary,
     * particular values of thread locals can be set or reset before
     * any task runs in {@link ThreadPoolExecutor} subclasses using
     * {@link ThreadPoolExecutor#beforeExecute(Thread, Runnable)}.
     * Also, if it is necessary to initialize worker threads to have
     * the same InheritableThreadLocal settings as some other
     * designated thread, you can create a custom ThreadFactory in
     * which that thread waits for and services requests to create
     * others that will inherit its values.
     *
     * @return a thread factory
     * @throws AccessControlException if the current access control
     * context does not have permission to both get and set context
     * class loader
     */
    public static ThreadFactory privilegedThreadFactory() {
        return new PrivilegedThreadFactory();
    }

    /**
     * Returns a {@link Callable} object that, when
     * called, runs the given task and returns the given result.  This
     * can be useful when applying methods requiring a
     * {@code Callable} to an otherwise resultless action.
     * @param task the task to run
     * @param result the result to return
     * @param <T> the type of the result
     * @return a callable object
     * @throws NullPointerException if task null
     */
    public static <T> Callable<T> callable(Runnable task, T result) {
        if (task == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        return new RunnableAdapter<T>(task, result);
    }

    /**
     * Returns a {@link Callable} object that, when
     * called, runs the given task and returns {@code null}.
     * @param task the task to run
     * @return a callable object
     * @throws NullPointerException if task null
     */
    public static Callable<Object> callable(Runnable task) {
        if (task == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        return new RunnableAdapter<Object>(task, null);
    }

    /**
     * Returns a {@link Callable} object that, when
     * called, runs the given privileged action and returns its result.
     * @param action the privileged action to run
     * @return a callable object
     * @throws NullPointerException if action null
     */
    public static Callable<Object> callable(final PrivilegedAction<?> action) {
        if (action == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        return new Callable<Object>() {
            public Object call() { return action.run(); }};
    }

    /**
     * Returns a {@link Callable} object that, when
     * called, runs the given privileged exception action and returns
     * its result.
     * @param action the privileged exception action to run
     * @return a callable object
     * @throws NullPointerException if action null
     */
    public static Callable<Object> callable(final PrivilegedExceptionAction<?> action) {
        if (action == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        return new Callable<Object>() {
            public Object call() throws Exception { return action.run(); }};
    }

    /**
     * Returns a {@link Callable} object that will, when called,
     * execute the given {@code callable} under the current access
     * control context. This method should normally be invoked within
     * an {@link AccessController#doPrivileged AccessController.doPrivileged}
     * action to create callables that will, if possible, execute
     * under the selected permission settings holding within that
     * action; or if not possible, throw an associated {@link
     * AccessControlException}.
     * @param callable the underlying task
     * @param <T> the type of the callable's result
     * @return a callable object
     * @throws NullPointerException if callable null
     */
    public static <T> Callable<T> privilegedCallable(Callable<T> callable) {
        if (callable == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        return new PrivilegedCallable<T>(callable);
    }

    /**
     * Returns a {@link Callable} object that will, when called,
     * execute the given {@code callable} under the current access
     * control context, with the current context class loader as the
     * context class loader. This method should normally be invoked
     * within an
     * {@link AccessController#doPrivileged AccessController.doPrivileged}
     * action to create callables that will, if possible, execute
     * under the selected permission settings holding within that
     * action; or if not possible, throw an associated {@link
     * AccessControlException}.
     *
     * @param callable the underlying task
     * @param <T> the type of the callable's result
     * @return a callable object
     * @throws NullPointerException if callable null
     * @throws AccessControlException if the current access control
     * context does not have permission to both set and get context
     * class loader
     */
    public static <T> Callable<T> privilegedCallableUsingCurrentClassLoader(Callable<T> callable) {
        if (callable == null)
            throw new NullPointerException();
        return new PrivilegedCallableUsingCurrentClassLoader<T>(callable);
    }

    // Non-public classes supporting the public methods

    /**
     * A callable that runs given task and returns given result
     */
    static final class RunnableAdapter<T> implements Callable<T> {
        final Runnable task;
        final T result;
        RunnableAdapter(Runnable task, T result) {
            this.task = task;
            this.result = result;
        }
        public T call() {
            task.run();
            return result;
        }
    }

    /**
     * A callable that runs under established access control settings
     */
    static final class PrivilegedCallable<T> implements Callable<T> {
        private final Callable<T> task;
        private final AccessControlContext acc;

        PrivilegedCallable(Callable<T> task) {
            this.task = task;
            this.acc = AccessController.getContext();
        }

        public T call() throws Exception {
            try {
                return AccessController.doPrivileged(
                    new PrivilegedExceptionAction<T>() {
                        public T run() throws Exception {
                            return task.call();
                        }
                    }, acc);
            } catch (PrivilegedActionException e) {
                throw e.getException();
            }
        }
    }

    /**
     * A callable that runs under established access control settings and
     * current ClassLoader
     */
    static final class PrivilegedCallableUsingCurrentClassLoader<T> implements Callable<T> {
        private final Callable<T> task;
        private final AccessControlContext acc;
        private final ClassLoader ccl;

        PrivilegedCallableUsingCurrentClassLoader(Callable<T> task) {
            SecurityManager sm = System.getSecurityManager();
            if (sm != null) {
                // Calls to getContextClassLoader from this class
                // never trigger a security check, but we check
                // whether our callers have this permission anyways.
                sm.checkPermission(SecurityConstants.GET_CLASSLOADER_PERMISSION);

                // Whether setContextClassLoader turns out to be necessary
                // or not, we fail fast if permission is not available.
                sm.checkPermission(new RuntimePermission("setContextClassLoader"));
            }
            this.task = task;
            this.acc = AccessController.getContext();
            this.ccl = Thread.currentThread().getContextClassLoader();
        }

        public T call() throws Exception {
            try {
                return AccessController.doPrivileged(
                    new PrivilegedExceptionAction<T>() {
                        public T run() throws Exception {
                            Thread t = Thread.currentThread();
                            ClassLoader cl = t.getContextClassLoader();
                            if (ccl == cl) {
                                return task.call();
                            } else {
                                t.setContextClassLoader(ccl);
                                try {
                                    return task.call();
                                } finally {
                                    t.setContextClassLoader(cl);
                                }
                            }
                        }
                    }, acc);
            } catch (PrivilegedActionException e) {
                throw e.getException();
            }
        }
    }

    /**
     * The default thread factory
     */
    static class DefaultThreadFactory implements ThreadFactory {
        private static final AtomicInteger poolNumber = new AtomicInteger(1);
        private final ThreadGroup group;
        private final AtomicInteger threadNumber = new AtomicInteger(1);
        private final String namePrefix;

        DefaultThreadFactory() {
            SecurityManager s = System.getSecurityManager();
            group = (s != null) ? s.getThreadGroup() :
                                  Thread.currentThread().getThreadGroup();
            namePrefix = "pool-" +
                          poolNumber.getAndIncrement() +
                         "-thread-";
        }

        public Thread newThread(Runnable r) {
            Thread t = new Thread(group, r,
                                  namePrefix + threadNumber.getAndIncrement(),
                                  0);
            if (t.isDaemon())
                t.setDaemon(false);
            if (t.getPriority() != Thread.NORM_PRIORITY)
                t.setPriority(Thread.NORM_PRIORITY);
            return t;
        }
    }

    /**
     * Thread factory capturing access control context and class loader
     */
    static class PrivilegedThreadFactory extends DefaultThreadFactory {
        private final AccessControlContext acc;
        private final ClassLoader ccl;

        PrivilegedThreadFactory() {
            super();
            SecurityManager sm = System.getSecurityManager();
            if (sm != null) {
                // Calls to getContextClassLoader from this class
                // never trigger a security check, but we check
                // whether our callers have this permission anyways.
                sm.checkPermission(SecurityConstants.GET_CLASSLOADER_PERMISSION);

                // Fail fast
                sm.checkPermission(new RuntimePermission("setContextClassLoader"));
            }
            this.acc = AccessController.getContext();
            this.ccl = Thread.currentThread().getContextClassLoader();
        }

        public Thread newThread(final Runnable r) {
            return super.newThread(new Runnable() {
                public void run() {
                    AccessController.doPrivileged(new PrivilegedAction<Void>() {
                        public Void run() {
                            Thread.currentThread().setContextClassLoader(ccl);
                            r.run();
                            return null;
                        }
                    }, acc);
                }
            });
        }
    }

    /**
     * A wrapper class that exposes only the ExecutorService methods
     * of an ExecutorService implementation.
     */
    static class DelegatedExecutorService extends AbstractExecutorService {
        private final ExecutorService e;
        DelegatedExecutorService(ExecutorService executor) { e = executor; }
        public void execute(Runnable command) { e.execute(command); }
        public void shutdown() { e.shutdown(); }
        public List<Runnable> shutdownNow() { return e.shutdownNow(); }
        public boolean isShutdown() { return e.isShutdown(); }
        public boolean isTerminated() { return e.isTerminated(); }
        public boolean awaitTermination(long timeout, TimeUnit unit)
            throws InterruptedException {
            return e.awaitTermination(timeout, unit);
        }
        public Future<?> submit(Runnable task) {
            return e.submit(task);
        }
        public <T> Future<T> submit(Callable<T> task) {
            return e.submit(task);
        }
        public <T> Future<T> submit(Runnable task, T result) {
            return e.submit(task, result);
        }
        public <T> List<Future<T>> invokeAll(Collection<? extends Callable<T>> tasks)
            throws InterruptedException {
            return e.invokeAll(tasks);
        }
        public <T> List<Future<T>> invokeAll(Collection<? extends Callable<T>> tasks,
                                             long timeout, TimeUnit unit)
            throws InterruptedException {
            return e.invokeAll(tasks, timeout, unit);
        }
        public <T> T invokeAny(Collection<? extends Callable<T>> tasks)
            throws InterruptedException, ExecutionException {
            return e.invokeAny(tasks);
        }
        public <T> T invokeAny(Collection<? extends Callable<T>> tasks,
                               long timeout, TimeUnit unit)
            throws InterruptedException, ExecutionException, TimeoutException {
            return e.invokeAny(tasks, timeout, unit);
        }
    }

    static class FinalizableDelegatedExecutorService
        extends DelegatedExecutorService {
        FinalizableDelegatedExecutorService(ExecutorService executor) {
            super(executor);
        }
        protected void finalize() {
            super.shutdown();
        }
    }

    /**
     * A wrapper class that exposes only the ScheduledExecutorService
     * methods of a ScheduledExecutorService implementation.
     */
    static class DelegatedScheduledExecutorService
            extends DelegatedExecutorService
            implements ScheduledExecutorService {
        private final ScheduledExecutorService e;
        DelegatedScheduledExecutorService(ScheduledExecutorService executor) {
            super(executor);
            e = executor;
        }
        public ScheduledFuture<?> schedule(Runnable command, long delay, TimeUnit unit) {
            return e.schedule(command, delay, unit);
        }
        public <V> ScheduledFuture<V> schedule(Callable<V> callable, long delay, TimeUnit unit) {
            return e.schedule(callable, delay, unit);
        }
        public ScheduledFuture<?> scheduleAtFixedRate(Runnable command, long initialDelay, long period, TimeUnit unit) {
            return e.scheduleAtFixedRate(command, initialDelay, period, unit);
        }
        public ScheduledFuture<?> scheduleWithFixedDelay(Runnable command, long initialDelay, long delay, TimeUnit unit) {
            return e.scheduleWithFixedDelay(command, initialDelay, delay, unit);
        }
    }

    /** Cannot instantiate. */
    private Executors() {}
}

```







## **拒绝策略**

>

- AbortPolicy



      简单粗暴，直接抛出拒绝异常，这也是默认的拒绝策略。

> ThreadPoolExecutor的一个内部类

```java
    public static class AbortPolicy implements RejectedExecutionHandler {
        /**
         * Creates an {@code AbortPolicy}.
         */
        public AbortPolicy() { }

        /**
         * Always throws RejectedExecutionException.
         *
         * @param r the runnable task requested to be executed
         * @param e the executor attempting to execute this task
         * @throws RejectedExecutionException always
         */
        public void rejectedExecution(Runnable r, ThreadPoolExecutor e) {
            throw new RejectedExecutionException("Task " + r.toString() +
                                                 " rejected from " +
                                                 e.toString());
        }
    }

```



- CallerRunsPolicy


        

       如果线程池未关闭，则会在调用者线程中直接执行新任务，这会导致主线程提交线程性能变慢。





- DiscardPolicy



       从方法看没做任务操作，即表示不处理新任务，即丢弃。





- DiscardOldestPolicy



       抛弃最老的任务，就是从队列取出最老的任务然后放入新的任务进行执行。        





##  **如何提交线程**



如可以先随便定义一个固定大小的线程池

ExecutorService es = Executors.newFixedThreadPool(3);



提交一个线程

es.submit(xxRunnble);

es.execute(xxRunnble);



submit和execute分别有什么区别呢？

execute没有返回值，如果不需要知道线程的结果就使用execute方法，性能会好很多。

submit返回一个Future对象，如果想知道线程结果就使用submit提交，而且它能在主线程中通过Future的get方法捕获线程中的异常。



##  **如何关闭线程池**



es.shutdown(); 

不再接受新的任务，之前提交的任务等执行结束再关闭线程池。



es.shutdownNow();

不再接受新的任务，试图停止池中的任务再关闭线程池，返回所有未处理的线程list列表。