# index

Hive has limited indexing capabilities. There are no keys in the usual relational database
sense, but you can build an index on columns to speed some operations. The index
data for a table is stored in another table.

Also, the feature is relatively new, so it doesn’t have a lot of options yet. However, the
indexing process is designed to be customizable with plug-in Java code, so teams can
extend the feature to meet their needs.

Indexing is also a good alternative to partitioning when the logical partitions would
actually be too numerous and small to be useful. Indexing can aid in pruning some
blocks from a table as input for a MapReduce job. Not all queries can benefit from an
index—the EXPLAIN syntax and Hive can be used to determine if a given query is aided
by an index.

Indexes in Hive, like those in relational databases, need to be evaluated carefully.
Maintaining an index requires extra disk space and building an index has a processing
cost. The user must weigh these costs against the benefits they offer when querying a
table.

##　Creating an Index

Let’s create an index for our managed, partitioned employees table we described in
“Partitioned, Managed Tables” on page 58. Here is the table definition we used previously,
for reference:

```sql
CREATE TABLE employees (
 name STRING,
 salary FLOAT,
 subordinates ARRAY<STRING>,
 deductions MAP<STRING, FLOAT>,
 address STRUCT<street:STRING, city:STRING, state:STRING, zip:INT>
)
PARTITIONED BY (country STRING, state STRING);
-- 这里是通过 country 和 state进行分区的
```

Let’s index on the country partition only:

```sql
CREATE INDEX employees_index
ON TABLE employees (country)
AS 'org.apache.hadoop.hive.ql.index.compact.CompactIndexHandler'
WITH DEFERRED REBUILD
IDXPROPERTIES ('creator' = 'me', 'created_at' = 'some_time')
IN TABLE employees_index_table
PARTITIONED BY (country, name)
-- 这里是通过 country name进行分区的
COMMENT 'Employees indexed by country and name.';
```

In this case, we did not partition the index table to the same level of granularity as the
original table. We could choose to do so. If we omitted the PARTITIONED BY clause
completely, the index would span all partitions of the original table.

`The AS ... clause specifies the index handler`, a Java class that implements indexing.
Hive ships with a few representative implementations; the CompactIndexHandler shown
was in the first release of this feature. Third-party implementations can optimize certain
scenarios, support specific file formats, and more. We’ll provide more information on
implementing your own index handler in `“Implementing a Custom Index Handler” on page 119.`

We’ll discuss the meaning of WITH DEFERRED REBUILD in the next section.

It’s not a requirement for the index handler to save its data in a new table, but if it does,
the `IN TABLE ...` clause is used. It supports many of the options available when creating
other tables. Specifically, the example `doesn’t use the optional` ROW FORMAT, STORED AS,
STORED BY, LOCATION, and TBLPROPERTIES clauses that we discussed in Chapter 4. All
would appear before the final COMMENT clause shown.

Currently, indexing external tables and views is supported except for data residing
in S3.

## Bitmap Indexes

Hive v0.8.0 adds a built-in bitmap index handler. Bitmap indexes are commonly used
for columns with few distinct values. Here is our previous example rewritten to use the
bitmap index handler:

```sql
CREATE INDEX employees_index
ON TABLE employees (country)
AS 'BITMAP'
WITH DEFERRED REBUILD
IDXPROPERTIES ('creator' = 'me', 'created_at' = 'some_time')
IN TABLE employees_index_table
PARTITIONED BY (country, name)
COMMENT 'Employees indexed by country and name.';
```

## Rebuilding the Index

If you specified `WITH DEFERRED REBUILD`, the new index `starts empty`. At any time, the
index can be built the first time or rebuilt using the `ALTER INDEX` statement:

```sql
ALTER INDEX employees_index
ON TABLE employees
PARTITION (country = 'US')
REBUILD;
```

If the PARTITION clause is omitted, the index is rebuilt for all partitions.

`There is no built-in mechanism to trigger an automatic rebuild of the index if the underlying table or a particular partition changes.` However, if you have a workflow that
updates table partitions with data, one where you might already use the `ALTER TABLE ... TOUCH PARTITION(...)` feature described in “Miscellaneous Alter Table Statements”
on page 69, that same workflow could issue the ALTER INDEX ... REBUILD
command for a corresponding index.

The rebuild is atomic in the sense that if the rebuild fails, the index is left in the previous
state before the rebuild was started.

## Showing an Index

The following command will show all the indexes defined for any column in the indexed
table:

SHOW FORMATTED INDEX ON employees;

FORMATTED is optional. It causes column titles to be added to the output. You can also
replace INDEX with INDEXES, as the output may list multiple indexes.

## Dropping an Index

Dropping an index also drops the index table, if any:

DROP INDEX IF EXISTS employees_index ON TABLE employees;

Hive won’t let you attempt to drop the index table directly with DROP TABLE. As always,
IF EXISTS is optional and serves to suppress errors if the index doesn’t exist.
If the table that was indexed is dropped, the index itself and its table is dropped. Similarly,
if a partition of the original table is dropped, the corresponding partition index
is also dropped.

## Implementing a Custom Index Handler

The full details for implementing a custom index handler are given on the Hive Wiki
page, https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/IndexDev#CREATE_INDEX,
where the initial design of indexing is documented. Of course, you can use the
source code for org.apache.hadoop.hive.ql.index.compact.CompactIndexHandler as an
example.

When the index is created, the Java code you implement for the index handler has to
do some initial validation and define the schema for the index table, if used. It also has
to implement the rebuilding process where it reads the table to be indexed and writes
to the index storage (e.g., the index table). The handler must clean up any nontable
storage it uses for the index when the index is dropped, relying on Hive to drop the
index table, as needed. Finally, the handler must participate in optimizing queries. 