# Fundmental Concepts

- Gather Business Requirements and Data Realities \ 获取需求和数据
  Before launching a dimensional modeling eff ort, the team needs to understand the needs of the business, as well as the realities of the underlying source data. You uncover the requirements via sessions with business representatives to understand their objectives based on key performance indicators, compelling business issues, decision-making processes, and supporting analytic needs. At the same time, data realities are uncovered by meeting with source system experts and doing high-level data profi ling to assess data feasibilities.
- Collaborative Dimensional Modeling Workshops \ 纬度模型应当是多方协作的结果
    Dimensional models should be designed in collaboration with subject matter experts and data governance representatives from the business. \ 与 主题专家和数据治理代表一同完成建模
- Four-Step Dimensional Design Process \ 设计流程的四个步骤
  - 1.Select the business process. \ 选择业务流程
    - Business processes are the operational activities performed by your organization, such as taking an order, processing an insurance claim, registering students for a class, or snapshotting every account each month. Business process events generate or capture performance metrics that translate into facts in a fact table. Most fact tables focus on the results of a single business process. Choosing the process is important because it defi nes a specifi c design target and allows the grain, dimen- sions, and facts to be declared. Each business process corresponds to a row in the enterprise data warehouse bus matrix.\
    业务流程，例如：下订单，学生注册班级，获得账户的月快照
  - 2.Declare the grain. \ 确定粒度
    - Declaring the grain is the pivotal[关键] step in a dimensional design. The grain establishes exactly what a single fact table row represents. The grain declaration becomes a binding[装订，粘合物] contract on the design. The grain must be declared before choosing dimensions or facts because every candidate dimension or fact must be consistent with the grain. This consistency enforces a uniformity on all dimensional designs that is critical to BI application performance and ease of use. Atomic grain refers to the lowest level at which data is captured by a given business process. We strongly encourage you to start by focusing on atomic-grained data because it withstands the assault of unpredictable user queries; rolled-up summary grains are important for performance tuning, but they pre-suppose the business’s common questions. Each proposed fact table grain results in a separate physical table; diff erent grains must not be mixed in the same fact table.\
    确定粒度是维度模型的关键，粒度确定了 `事实表` 中的一行代表了什么含义。粒度必须在选择维度和事实之前确认，因为任何事实或维度都要与粒度一致。一致性保证BI应用可以使用这个模型。
  - 3.Identify the dimensions. \ 确定维度
    - Dimensions provide the “who, what, where, when, why, and how” context surrounding a business process event. Dimension tables contain the descriptive attributes used by BI applications for filtering and grouping the facts. With the grain of a fact table firmly in mind, all the possible dimensions can be identified. Whenever possible, a dimension should be single valued when associated with a given fact row.\
    维度提供=》 who，what，where，when，why，how =>围绕一个业务流程=>给BI应用，提供描述性的选项或者过滤，分组条件。
  - 4.Identify the facts. \ 确定事实
    - Facts are the measurements that result from a business process event and are almost always numeric. A single fact table row has a one-to-one relationship to a measurement event as described by the fact table’s grain. Thus a fact table corresponds to a physi- cal observable event, and not to the demands of a particular report. Within a fact table, only facts consistent with the declared grain are allowed. For example, in a retail sales transaction, the quantity of a product sold and its extended price are good facts, whereas the store manager’s salary is disallowed.
- Star Schemas and OLAP Cubes \ 星型模式 与 OLAP cubes
  - Star schemas are dimensional structures deployed in a relational database management system (RDBMS). They characteristically consist of fact tables linked to associated dimension tables via primary/foreign key relationships. An online analytical processing (OLAP) cube is a dimensional structure implemented in a multidimensional database; it can be equivalent in content to, or more often derived from, a relational star schema. An OLAP cube contains dimensional attributes and facts, but it is accessed through languages with more analytic capabilities than SQL, such as XMLA and MDX. OLAP cubes are included in this list of basic techniques because an OLAP cube is often the final step in the deployment of a dimensional DW/BI system, or may exist as an aggregate structure based on a more atomic relational star schema.\
  纬度建模在关系库中就是星型模型

- Graceful【优雅的】 Extensions to Dimensional Models

Dimensional models are resilient when data relationships change. All the following
changes can be implemented without altering any existing BI query or application,
and without any change in query results.\
`维度模型应当有弹性=》应对数据关系变化。以下情况都应满足`

- ■ Facts consistent with the grain of an existing fact table can be added by creat-ing new columns.`事实表添加列`
- ■ Dimensions can be added to an existing fact table by creating new foreign key columns, presuming they don’t alter the fact table’s grain.`维度表可以通过外健方式加入事实表而不影响表的粒度`
- ■ Attributes can be added to an existing dimension table by creating new columns.`可以通过加入新列对维度表添加属性`
- ■ The grain of a fact table can be made more atomic by adding attributes to an exist- ing dimension table, and then restating the fact table at the lower grain, being careful to preserve the existing column names in the fact and dimension tables.`通过添加列可以是fact表原子粒度更细`
