# Basic Dimension Table Techniques

The techniques in this section apply to all dimension tables. Dimension tables are
discussed and illustrated in every chapter.

## Dimension Table Structure

Every dimension table has a single primary key column. This primary key is embedded
as a foreign key in any associated fact table where the dimension row’s descriptive
context is exactly correct for that fact table row. Dimension tables are usually wide, flat
denormalized tables with many low-cardinality text attributes. While operational codes
and indicators can be treated as attributes, the most powerful dimension attributes
are populated with verbose descriptions. Dimension table attributes are the primary
target of constraints and grouping specifi cations from queries and BI applications. The
descriptive labels on reports are typically dimension attribute domain values.\
`每个维度表都有一个唯一主健。用于作为事实表的外健。维度表通常是，宽的，扁平化的，非规范化的。`

## Dimension Surrogate【代理】 Keys

A dimension table is designed with one column serving as a unique primary key.
This primary key cannot be the operational system’s natural key because there will
be multiple dimension rows for that natural key when changes are tracked over time.
In addition, natural keys for a dimension may be created by more than one source
system, and these natural keys may be incompatible or poorly administered. The
DW/BI system needs to claim control of the primary keys of all dimensions; rather
than using explicit natural keys or natural keys with appended dates, you should
create anonymous integer primary keys for every dimension. These dimension sur-
rogate keys are simple integers, assigned in sequence, starting with the value 1,
every time a new key is needed. The date dimension is exempt from the surrogate
key rule; this highly predictable and stable dimension can use a more meaningful
primary key. See the section “Calendar Date Dimensions.”\
`代理健： 在维度表中，很难找到一个原生的健作为主健，因为维度表中的多个维度row可能随着时间同时变化。主健必须能够掌握所有row的变化`

## Natural, Durable, and Supernatural Keys

Natural keys created by operational source systems are subject to business rules outside
the control of the DW/BI system. For instance, an employee number (natural key) may 
be changed if the employee resigns and then is rehired. When the data warehouse
wants to have a single key for that employee, a new durable key must be created that is
persistent and does not change in this situation. This key is sometimes referred to as
a durable supernatural key. The best durable keys have a format that is independent of
the original business process and thus should be simple integers assigned in sequence
beginning with 1. While multiple surrogate keys may be associated with an employee
over time as their profi le changes, the durable key never changes.\
`自然健：例如 工号，学号，身份证号这样的`\
`持久健：自然健是可能发生变化的，比如一个员工离职，再次入职，所以用一个持久健应对这种情况`\
`持久健有时被称为超自然健。这些健不依赖于现实的事务，例如=》从1开始int排序`

## Drilling Down \ 下钻

Drilling down is the most fundamental way data is analyzed by business users. Drilling
down simply means adding a row header to an existing query; the new row header
is a dimension attribute appended to the GROUP BY expression in an SQL query. The
attribute can come from any dimension attached to the fact table in the query. Drilling
down does not require the definition of predetermined hierarchies or drill-down paths.
See the section “Drilling Across.”\
`下钻是数据分析的基本方式之一。=》 GROUP BY （某个维度）`

## Degenerate Dimensions \ 维度退化 \ 退化维度

Sometimes a dimension is defined that has no content except for its primary key.
For example, when an invoice has multiple line items, the line item fact rows inherit
all the descriptive dimension foreign keys of the invoice, and the invoice is left with
no unique content. But the invoice number remains a valid dimension key for fact
tables at the line item level. This degenerate dimension is placed in the fact table with
the explicit acknowledgment that there is no associated dimension table. Degenerate
dimensions are most common with transaction and accumulating snapshot fact tables.\
`有时候，维度被设计成了除了自己的主健没有什么内容的样子。例如，一张发票有几行。在发票行的事实表中，有一个维度是发票的PK。发票这个退化维度直接放到fact表里面=> 退化维度对事务事实表，累计快照事实表来说，非常常见`

## Denormalized Flattened Dimensions \ 非範式扁平维度 =》 一般都是这么玩的

In general, dimensional designers must resist the normalization urges caused by years
of operational database designs and instead denormalize the many-to-one fixed depth
hierarchies into separate attributes on a flattened dimension row. Dimension denor-
malization supports dimensional modeling’s twin objectives of simplicity and speed.

## Multiple Hierarchies in Dimensions \ 多层维度 =》 例：年 月 周 日 都在同一个ie维度表里面

Many dimensions contain more than one natural hierarchy. For example, calendar
date dimensions may have a day to week to fiscal period hierarchy, as well as a
day to month to year hierarchy. Location intensive dimensions may have multiple
geographic hierarchies. In all of these cases, the separate hierarchies can gracefully
coexist in the same dimension table.\
`许多维度有多个自然层级（分类？），`

## Flags and Indicators as Textual Attributes \ 标志位，指示器 as 文本属性

Cryptic abbreviations, true/false flags, and operational indicators should be sup-
plemented in dimension tables with full text words that have meaning when
independently viewed. Operational codes with embedded meaning within the
code value should be broken down with each part of the code expanded into its
own separate descriptive dimension attribute.\
`所有的 true，false  1，2，3这种标志位=》 完整的，有意义的文字描述。 加个字段，把这些内容展示出来，用以理解使用`

## Null Attributes in Dimensions \  维度表中的NULL =》 变成 unknow 之类的，不要空着

Null-valued dimension attributes result when a given dimension row has not been
fully populated, or when there are attributes that are not applicable to all the dimen-
sion’s rows. In both cases, we recommend substituting a descriptive string, such as
Unknown or Not Applicable in place of the null value. Nulls in dimension attributes
should be avoided because different databases handle grouping and constraining
on nulls inconsistently.

## Calendar Date Dimensions \ 日历日期维度 =》 几乎所有fact表都与这个维度表有关联

Calendar date dimensions are attached to virtually every fact table to allow navigation
of the fact table through familiar dates, months, fi scal periods, and special days on
the calendar. You would never want to compute Easter in SQL, but rather want to
look it up in the calendar date dimension. The calendar date dimension typically
has many attributes describing characteristics such as week number, month name,
fi scal period, and national holiday indicator. To facilitate partitioning, the primary
key of a date dimension can be more meaningful, such as an integer representing
YYYYMMDD, instead of a sequentially-assigned surrogate key. However, the date
dimension table needs a special row to represent unknown or to-be-determined
dates. When further precision is needed, a separate date/time stamp can be added
to the fact table. The date/time stamp is not a foreign key to a dimension table, but
rather is a standalone column. If business users constrain or group on time-of-day
attributes, such as day part grouping or shift number, then you would add a separate
time-of-day dimension foreign key to the fact table.

## Role-Playing Dimensions \ 角色扮演维度 =》 一个fact表的一行，引用这个维度多次（李：累计快照事实表）

A single physical dimension can be referenced multiple times in a fact table, with
each reference linking to a logically distinct role for the dimension. For instance, a
fact table can have several dates, each of which is represented by a foreign key to the
date dimension. It is essential that each foreign key refers to a separate view of
the date dimension so that the references are independent. These separate dimen-
sion views (with unique attribute column names) are called roles.

## Junk Dimensions \ 垃圾\杂物\维度

Transactional business processes typically produce a number of miscellaneous, low-
cardinality flags and indicators. Rather than making separate dimensions for each
flag and attribute, you can create a single junk dimension combining them together.
This dimension, frequently labeled as a transaction profile dimension in a schema,
does not need to be the Cartesian product of all the attributes’ possible values, but
should only contain the combination of values that actually occur in the source data.\
`事务流程通常产生很多混杂的，散乱的标志位，指示器。与其给每个标志位或者指示器建立一个维度，我们可以建立一个维度把这些内容放在一起。=》 这个维度被通常被称作 transaction profile dimension =》这个维度不一定是所有 值的 卡迪尔积，只要包含所有可能发生的情况就行了`

## Snowflaked Dimensions \ 滚雪球维度

When a hierarchical relationship in a dimension table is normalized, low-cardinal-
ity attributes appear as secondary tables connected to the base dimension table by
an attribute key. When this process is repeated with all the dimension table’s hier-
archies, a characteristic multilevel structure is created that is called a snowflake.
Although the snowflake represents hierarchical data accurately, you should avoid
snowfl akes because it is diffi cult for business users to understand and navigate
snowfl akes. They can also negatively impact query performance. A fl attened denor-
malized dimension table contains exactly the same information as a snowflaked
dimension.\
`当一个维度表中有了层级关系，低层级的值通过健连接，产生了第二个表，如此下去。一个典型的多层结构产生了=》滚雪球。虽然这种结构能够精确的表示数据层级关系，但是还是应该避免这中形式，因为很难用，很难用，很难用。`

## Outrigger Dimensions \ 舷外支架，悬臂梁，起重臂 =》 
 
A dimension can contain a reference to another dimension table. For instance, a
bank account dimension can reference a separate dimension representing the date
the account was opened. These secondary dimension references are called outrigger
dimensions. Outrigger dimensions are permissible, but should be used sparingly. In
most cases, the correlations between dimensions should be demoted to a fact table,
where both dimensions are represented as separate foreign keys.\
`一个维度表，又连着另一个维度，第二个维度就被称作 outrigger dimensions。可以用，但是要节制，最好把二手维度降级到fact表里面，各自用个fk。`