# Basic Fact Table Techniques

The techniques in this section apply to all fact tables. There are illustrations of fact
tables in nearly every chapter.

## Fact Table Structure \ 事实表结构

A fact table contains the numeric measures produced by an operational measure-
ment event in the real world. At the lowest grain, a fact table row corresponds to a
measurement event and vice versa. Thus the fundamental design of a fact table is
entirely based on a physical activity and is not influenced by the eventual reports
that may be produced. In addition to numeric measures, a fact table always contains
foreign keys for each of its associated dimensions, as well as optional degenerate
dimension keys and date/time stamps. Fact tables are the primary target of compu-
tations and dynamic aggregations arising from queries.、
`事实表包含现实行为的数字形度量。在最低粒度，事实表行与一个行为对应，反之亦然。fact表一定是基于物理行为而非行为报告之类的数据。事实表中=》 包含来自维表的外健`

## Additive, Semi-Additive, Non-Additive Facts \ 可加，半可加，不可加事实

The numeric measures in a fact table fall into three categories. The most flexible and
useful facts are fully additive; additive measures can be summed across any of the
dimensions associated with the fact table. Semi-additive measures can be summed
across some dimensions, but not all; balance amounts are common semi-additive facts
because they are additive across all dimensions except time. Finally, some measures
are completely non-additive, such as ratios. A good approach for non-additive facts is,
where possible, to store the fully additive components of the non-additive measure
and sum these components into the fi nal answer set before calculating the fi nal
non-additive fact. This fi nal calculation is often done in the BI layer or OLAP cube.\
`事实表中的数值子段通常是最有用的数据。数据根据其加和是否有意义有了如题的区分，直接可加如订单价格，半可加可能需要通过一些维度辅助能够作加法。不可加，比如 10%这种数据`

## Nulls in Fact Tables

Null-valued measurements behave gracefully in fact tables. The aggregate functions
( SUM , COUNT , MIN , MAX , and AVG ) all do the “right thing” with null facts. However,
nulls must be avoided in the fact table’s foreign keys because these nulls would
automatically cause a referential integrity violation. Rather than a null foreign key,
the associated dimension table must have a default row (and surrogate key) repre-
senting the unknown or not applicable condition.\
`Null值对于各种聚合函数来说都可以轻松应对，但是一定不能出现null的外健=》 直接影响 参照完整性 =》 给一个default数值表示未知`

## Conformed Facts \ 同形事实  \ 不同事实表中的 同名（同含义）事实，度量应该设置为相同的，比如价格都用 元 或者美元， 如果不同，需要有特定子段来表在，或者名字不同

If the same measurement appears in separate fact tables, care must be taken to make
sure the technical definitions of the facts are identical if they are to be compared
or computed together. If the separate fact definitions are consistent, the conformed
facts should be identically named; but if they are incompatible, they should be dif-
ferently named to alert the business users and BI applications.

## Transaction Fact Tables \ 事务事实表

A row in a transaction fact table corresponds to a measurement event at a point in
space and time. Atomic transaction grain fact tables are the most dimensional and
expressive fact tables; this robust dimensionality enables the maximum slicing
and dicing of transaction data. Transaction fact tables may be dense or sparse
because rows exist only if measurements take place. These fact tables always con-
tain a foreign key for each associated dimension, and optionally contain precise
time stamps and degenerate dimension keys. The measured numeric facts must be
consistent with the transaction grain.

## Periodic Snapshot Fact Tables \ 周期快照事实表

A row in a periodic snapshot fact table summarizes many measurement events occur-
ring over a standard period, such as a day, a week, or a month. The grain is the
period, not the individual transaction. Periodic snapshot fact tables often contain
many facts because any measurement event consistent with the fact table grain is
permissible. These fact tables are uniformly dense in their foreign keys because
even if no activity takes place during the period, a row is typically inserted in the
fact table containing a zero or null for each fact.44 Chapter 2

## Accumulating Snapshot Fact Tables \ 累计快照事实表

A row in an accumulating snapshot fact table summarizes the measurement events
occurring at predictable steps between the beginning and the end of a process.
Pipeline or workfl ow processes, such as order fulfi llment or claim processing, that
have a defi ned start point, standard intermediate steps, and defi ned end point can be
modeled with this type of fact table. There is a date foreign key in the fact table for
each critical milestone in the process. An individual row in an accumulating snap-
shot fact table, corresponding for instance to a line on an order, is initially inserted
when the order line is created. As pipeline progress occurs, the accumulating fact
table row is revisited and updated. This consistent updating of accumulating snap-
shot fact rows is unique among the three types of fact tables. In addition to the date
foreign keys associated with each critical process step, accumulating snapshot fact
tables contain foreign keys for other dimensions and optionally contain degener-
ate dimensions. They often include numeric lag measurements consistent with the
grain, along with milestone completion counters.

## Factless Fact Tables

Although most measurement events capture numerical results, it is possible that
the event merely records a set of dimensional entities coming together at a moment
in time. For example, an event of a student attending a class on a given day may
not have a recorded numeric fact, but a fact row with foreign keys for calendar day,
student, teacher, location, and class is well-defi ned. Likewise, customer communi-
cations are events, but there may be no associated metrics. Factless fact tables canKimball Dimensional Modeling Techniques Overview
45
also be used to analyze what didn’t happen. These queries always have two parts: a
factless coverage table that contains all the possibilities of events that might happen
and an activity table that contains the events that did happen. When the activity
is subtracted from the coverage, the result is the set of events that did not happen.

## Aggregate Fact Tables or OLAP Cubes \ 聚合事实表 《=》 OLAP cubes

Aggregate fact tables are simple numeric rollups of atomic fact table data built solely
to accelerate query performance. These aggregate fact tables should be available to
the BI layer at the same time as the atomic fact tables so that BI tools smoothly
choose the appropriate aggregate level at query time. This process, known as
aggregate navigation, must be open so that every report writer, query tool, and BI
application harvests the same performance benefi ts. A properly designed set of
aggregates should behave like database indexes, which accelerate query perfor-
mance but are not encountered directly by the BI applications or business users.
Aggregate fact tables contain foreign keys to shrunken conformed dimensions, as
well as aggregated facts created by summing measures from more atomic fact tables.
Finally, aggregate OLAP cubes with summarized measures are frequently built in
the same way as relational aggregates, but the OLAP cubes are meant to be accessed
directly by the business users.

## Consolidated Fact Tables \  统一的事实表

It is often convenient to combine facts from multiple processes together into a single
consolidated fact table if they can be expressed at the same grain. For example, sales
actuals can be consolidated with sales forecasts in a single fact table to make the task
of analyzing actuals versus forecasts simple and fast, as compared to assembling a
drill-across application using separate fact tables. Consolidated fact tables add bur-
den to the ETL processing, but ease the analytic burden on the BI applications. They
should be considered for cross-process metrics that are frequently analyzed together.